Readme update (#165)
PySymGym/PySymGym: README.md

</p>

# PySymGym

> [![Python linting](https://github.com/PySymGym/PySymGym/actions/workflows/python_linting.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PySymGym/PySymGym/actions/workflows/python_linting.yaml)

Author: Nothing changes when I apply this. I guess that this text appears only when something went wrong while searching the resource from the link. So why we need to change text in these cases?

> [![Python linting](https://github.com/PySymGym/PySymGym/actions/workflows/python_linting.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PySymGym/PySymGym/actions/workflows/python_linting.yaml)

Reviewer: I think that badges desc are too long. turns out proposed suggestion doesn't affect README badge => out of scope of this PR

[![Run python tests](https://github.com/PySymGym/PySymGym/actions/workflows/python_tests.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PySymGym/PySymGym/actions/workflows/python_tests.yaml)

Python infrastructure to train paths selectors for symbolic execution engines.

We treat paths selection as a game where current state of symbolic execution process, represented as a interprocedural control flow graph equipped with information about execution details, is a map of the world (game map). States of symbolic machine are chips that player able to move. Each step, having current game map, player (AI agent) selects state to move and sends it to game server. Server moves selected state and return updated map to the player. Depending on scoring function, player can be aimed to achieve 100% coverage in minimal number of moves, or achieve 100% coverage with minimal number of tests generated, or something else.

Thus we introduced the following components.

- Game server
- Game maps
- AI agent (player)

> - Training gym

Reviewer: ?

> As far as we use Json-based format to transfer data between server and agent, together with Json-based game maps description, our gym can be used to train networks using different symbolic execution engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we use JSON-based format to transfer data between server and agent, including JSON-based game map description, our gym can be used to train networks using different symbolic execution engines.
```

## Install

This repository contains submodules, so use the following command to get sources locally.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/gsvgit/PySymGym.git
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

> Build Symbolic Virtual Machines ([V#](https://github.com/VSharp-team/VSharp) and [usvm](https://github.com/UnitTestBot/usvm)) and methods for training. To do this step you need dotnet7, cmake, clang and maven to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build Symbolic Virtual Machines ([V#](https://github.com/VSharp-team/VSharp) and [usvm](https://github.com/UnitTestBot/usvm)) and methods for training. To do this step, you need to install .NET 7, cmake, clang, and maven.
```

To use GPU, the correct `torch` and `torch_geometric` version should be installed depending on your host device. You may first need to `pip uninstall` these packages, provided by requirements.
Then follow installation instructions provided on [torch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) and [torch_geometric](https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/stable/install/installation.html#installation-from-wheels) websites.

## Repo structure

- **AIAgent** contains Python agent and related infrastructure to train network, prepare data, etc.
- **GameServers** contains (as submodules) different symbolic execution engines extended to communicate with the agent, generate data for training, etc.

> - **maps** contains target projects that used as inputs for symbolic execution engines, as data for training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion - **maps** contains target projects that are used as inputs for symbolic execution engines as training data.
```

Author: Why should we remove this? I think it's important part of our repository structure.

Reviewer: this suggestion was an accident

## Usage

> ### Follow these steps:

Reviewer: This section is confusing, as it is unclear, what each step means. In my opinion, it should look smth like this:

1) Build all dependencies.
    - Optionally add new maps to [maps](./maps/) and do 
        ```sh
         make build_SVMs build_maps STEPS_TO_SERIALIZE=<MAX_STEPS>
        ```
2) Using [`example from workflow`](`./workflow/dataset_for_tests_java.json`) as a template, create your own configuration with maps to use for training.
3) Run training process (checkout [this chapter](#run-training)).
4) Use [`onyx.py`](#onnx-conversion) command line tool convert your PyTorch model to ONNX format.
5) Use your ONNX model to guide symbolic execution. (checkout `Running with a trained model`, [integration chapter](#integrate-a-new-symbolic-machine)) or use existing extension to one of SVMs in this repo:
    - Place your model in `./VSharp/VSharp.Explorer/models/model.onnx`
    - run `dotnet GameServers/VSharp/VSharp.Runner/bin/Release/net7.0/VSharp.Runner.dll --method BinarySearch maps/DotNet/Maps/Root/bin/Release/net7.0/ManuallyCollected.dll --timeout 120 --strat AI --check-coverage`

Author: Yes, I think this version is more clear. But what is a `Running with a trained model`? 
Also I think we need to extend it with description of running with optuna.

Reviewer: > what is a `Running with a trained model`?
maybe it was a name of a header, can't remember. Fixed suggestion

> Also I think we need to extend it with description of running with optuna.
optuna is a part of training configuration, so in my opinion, optuna description should be a part of a section, that describes training configuration

- Build game server
- Build game maps

> - Create Json with maps description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create JSON with maps description
```

```

**Or** [integrate](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/integrations/#vs-code-official) it with your favorite code editor (for example, [VSCode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=charliermarsh.ruff))

## Results

> _Comparison of selector based on our model (AI) with the best selector of V#. All except coverage provided for methods with equal coverage._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Comparison of the selector, based on our model (AI), with the best selector of V#. All metrics except coverage provided for methods with equal coverage._
```

Reviewer: it is correct either way, so commas indeed can be dropped

Author: I've already done it.
